web-browser: adds introductory material for browsers and web dev (#1)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-3: web-browsers/the-dom-and-html.md

| Element | A unit of content in an HTML document. These are represented as nodes in the DOM.                                                                                   | HTML Element              |
| Sibling | In a tree structure, a sibling node is a node that shares a parent with another node                                                                                |

### !callout-info

## Web Pages Are Documents

Some contexts may refer to a web page as a document.

### !end-callout

## The DOM

The Document Object Model, also known as **the DOM**, is a representation of the structured content on a web page.

The DOM is a _tree structure_. Each part of the document (or web page) is represented as a node in the tree.

### Trees

Trees are data structures which organize data through nodes and branches.

There is one root node. The root node has children nodes.

Those children nodes can also have their own child nodes! However, each node can either have exactly zero or one parent node.

> ![A tree structure with grey, unlabeled nodes. The root node has two children. Each node has either 0, 1, or 2 children. The tree is four layers deep.](../assets/web-browsers_the-dom-and-html_generic-tree.png)

Author: My personal opinion is to not introduce the leaf node vocab... Happy for stronger push-back, but yeah

> When a web page is represented in the DOM structure, the root node of the tree is always a document object that represents the document itself.

Reviewer: I feel like this is alluding to the `document` JS object (which technically does implement Node), but then the example html structure later essentially shows `html` as the root (which is definitely a valid perspective coming from `document.documentElement`). So I feel like there's a bit of impedance between this description and the later example. Not sure if we need to do anything, but that's what's rattling around in my head.

We _could_ ignore the JS document for now (for some reason, I don't usually think of it as being part of the tree) and just say that the `html` element is the root?

```suggestion
When a web page is represented in the DOM structure, the root node of the tree is a special `html` element.
```

> Elements and pieces of content become children nodes to the document.

Reviewer: the sense of change of "become" feels odd to me. I'd tend to say they are represented as descendants (descendants rather than _child_ nodes since not all elements in the tree are child nodes of the root node itself).
This suggestion assumes the above change was taken.
```suggestion
Other page elements and pieces of content are represented as descendants of the root node.
```
Here's a version that does _not_ assume the above change was taken.
```suggestion
Page elements and pieces of content are represented as descendants of the root node.
```

## HTML Elements Define Document Structure

> We organize the content of a webpage using _HTML_.

Reviewer: confusing mixture of italics here, but then bold in the next paragraph.

We _really_ need some clarity around what we use these to mean! 🤣 

```suggestion
We organize the content of a webpage using **HTML**.
```

Author: Ah! Great question and point! Very casually, I've made this rule in my head:

1. When a vocabulary word is properly defined (ideally the vocab word is subject of the sentence, and the sentence's purpose is about what it _is_ (and not what it does or contextually how it's used)), it's bold
2. When it is named otherwise, it is italic

Do you have any thoughts on that? :O

Reviewer: That sounds like a reasonable distinction. I guess here it gets a little jumbled because there's the italic and the bold very near one another, and as I was puzzling over the distinction, noticed the italicized element in the follow sentence, which was presumably there solely for emphasis.

I did a quick flip through some text and technical books I had nearby, and they were fairly split on whether they used italics or bold for definitions. Personally, I'm more an italics guy, but 🤷 .

I'll try to file this away for future reference, but don't be surprised if I complain about this again sometime! 🤣

**HTML**, or Hypertext Markup Language, is a language used to describe how the content is structured.

Using HTML, we will turn every piece of content into **HTML elements**. Each _element_ of content will be organized in the document as a child and/or sibling node. How we structure our content in HTML will have a direct effect on the structure of the DOM.

### Nested Elements

When an element is nested inside another element, we represent this in the DOM by forming a parent-child relationship between the elements.

### Sibling Elements

When two elements share a parent node, they are considered to be _sibling elements_.

## Example DOM and Relationships

Consider the following example DOM. Each node is an HTML element with a name.

![Diagram of a DOM that has a root node that is an `html` element. The following elements are present: html, head, title, meta, meta, body, h1, p, a, ul, li, li, li.](../assets/web-browsers_the-dom-and-html_dom-example.png)

In this diagram, the `html` element is the root element.

It has two children:

1. A `head` element
1. A `body` element

The `head` and `body` elements are siblings with each other.

> The `head` element is contained inside the `html` element. It's a child of the `html` element. This `head` element itself, though, has three nested children elements:

Reviewer: no adjective inflection
"though" sounds like it's making some sort of exception or contrast. we're just providing additional info.
```suggestion
The `head` element is contained inside the `html` element. It's a child of the `html` element. Additionally, the `head` element itself has three nested child elements:
```

1. A `title` element
1. A `meta` element
1. A second `meta` element

The `title`, `meta`, and `meta` elements are siblings with each other.

## Check for Understanding

<!-- Question 4 -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge
* type: checkbox
* id: 6fc24d1e
* title: The DOM and HTML
##### !question

Consider this diagram that shows an example DOM.

![Diagram of a DOM that has a root node that is an `html` element. The following elements are present: html, head, title, meta, meta, body, h1, p, a, ul, li, li, li.](../assets/web-browsers_the-dom-and-html_dom-example.png)

Check each option that is true.

##### !end-question
##### !options

* The `ul` element contains three `li` elements
* The `h1`, `p`, and `ul` elements are siblings
* The `h1`, `p`, and `ul` elements are parents
* The `a`, `li`, `li`, and `li` elements are siblings
* The parent of the `a` element is the `p` element
* The `h1` element's parent is the `body` element

> * The `body` element has three children elements

Reviewer: no adjective inflection
```suggestion
* The `body` element has three child elements
```

* The `title`, `meta`, `meta`, `h1`, `p`, and `ul` elements are all siblings

##### !end-options
##### !answer

* The `ul` element contains three `li` elements
* The `h1`, `p`, and `ul` elements are siblings
* The parent of the `a` element is the `p` element
* The `h1` element's parent is the `body` element

> * The `body` element has three children elements

Reviewer: no adjective inflection
```suggestion
* The `body` element has three child elements
```
